Hello and welcome back to the course in
R programming. Hope you're enjoying this
section and today we're talking about
functions to be honest it feels like we
don't really need to talk about
functions we've been using them all
along and we already know functions
pretty well but nevertheless let's
solidify this knowledge and let's make
sure we put everything into the right
places.
Alright so what a functions? How do they
work?
Why do I have a blender here and some
fruit as movie
well because this is one of the best
representations of how functions
actually work. Function you can think of
a function as a blender and it requires
some inputs right like a blender
requires fruit so there's a function
requires some input variables and once
you put those variables inside the
function does something like a blender
it blends the fruit and berries and so
on and then it produces something on the
output so a blender will produce a
delicious movie as we can see here a
function will produce some output result
whether it's a variable, vector well we
actually know that all variables are in
fact vectors so function can produce
lots of different types of output and
that is basically what functions before
they take your inputs they do something
with them they add on some of their
internal things that they have within
them and then they produce an output. So
with that sort of been using them before
so far and now let's jump straight into
R studio and have a look at all the
functions that we've already used.
Ok so let's get started to get off I'm
actually going to challenge, I'm going to
challenge you to pause this video
glittery for like two minutes and try to
remember all the functions that we've
been through so far in this course and
I'm also going to do it with you now so
forgive me if I don't get all of them
but these are the ones I remember you're
ready let's go.
So I remember rnorm reviews down
quite a lot then we had
three functions for creating vectors
right we have combined which is just the
see then we had the sequence and we
had the replicate so those were the
three that family of functions for
creating vectors then we had the
print function to put messages into the
console if we're inside a loop and we
had some functions that we kind of
didn't talk about much we just use them
briefly just to check what kind of
vectors are creating a pretty
straightforward just basically a boolean
functions good examples of functions that
return simply a boolean value or a
logical of value as we call them so is a
double is character, as you can see there
you can just click enter and the
automatic pop-up will finish typing the
function for you before that at the very
start of the course we had type off
right type off which allowed us to
understand whether variable is an
integer double the character and so on
and also we have strt which we used to
derive a square root and we also had
pasted there we go so those are the ones
I remember you maybe you remember the
bit more, if we did have more
and as you can see quite a good variety
of functions we explored was at 4, 9, 10, 12
functions or radio and doesn't function
that are in your our Arsenal and you
should be quite comfortable with already
but we're going to do today well today
we're going to take it a step further we
actually going to dig into this function
and see a bit how they are constructed
on the inside or more what kind of
parameters they're expecting so far
we've been doing it intuitively and from
the things I've told you and now you
will have an opportunity to actually see
for yourself. What r tell you about these
functions. So we're not going to
introduce any new ones because dozens
are really quite a lot will introduce
your functions to put it down the course
but for now let's just talk about this
one handy trick that I'll share one
which is called the question mark there
I 've created a comment with it and now
we're going to do is we're going to take
all these functions and we're going to
go through them
and at the start well not all of them
but some select functions at the start
will type in the question mark so this
is how r allows you to bring up help.
You see the window here so far it's
been empty we haven't used that I don't
think we've even used it once in this
course
well today is the first time we're going
to use it and if you type in a question
like before a function and then execute
their line
what will happen is as usual the code is
copied into the console is executed and
then are automatically brings up the
help for that specific function and as
you can see here we've got a description
of this function, here we go description
of the normal distribution it tells you
a bit of the stats and here is under
usage it's got four functions in fact. So
not just that one function we can we've
got a family of functions and the one
we're interested in is over here
rnorm as you can see it specifies that
the function requires three input
variable so this think of it like the
blender example we talked about so this
is what needs to go inside the blender
what's in the brackets and mean equals 0
s d standard deviation equals one and
then you've got a description of all of
the arguments. So you've got the ones we
are interested in RN mean st so n is
number of observations if length of an
is great and one so if you pass on a
vector which spread and one and then
lent is taken to be the number required,
so basically if you if you passed what
that means if you usually polished
number like five or ten or a hundred but
if you put some vector then our will
just take the length of the vector as
the value that you want as a number of
variables that you want to generate. Mean
vector of means so basically you can
pass the values of your means that you
wanted to generate in our case we always
pass just one value and a vector of
standardization so as you can see this
function actually allows you to pass
vectors into it but we're going to go
into too much from that will practice
passing a vector for the down with other
functions but what you should take from
here is that you can get very detailed
description of functions
from the help so if you ever get lost if
you ever don't know what parameters
departure function of how exactly it
works just type in the ? before the name
of function and hit execute and see what
the help tell you.
Alright so let's practice a bit so I'm
going to take out there ? now and let's
see what we can plus. So what do how do
we normally run rnorm would say
rnorm, we would say how many variables
lets say 5 right and then if i hit
command enter when return you can see
that I've got the five variables
generated but now we also know that they
are two other variables that we can
past which is the mean and standard
deviation and why is the function
working without passing those other two
variables so we're only passing one but
it's waiting for three.
What's going on here? Well the thing is
that you see these equal sides that
women get here so do you see these equal
signs right here and here as well what
the they mean is that they are default
values for those parameters so basically
if you do not pass the mean or the
standard deviation what happens is our
takes these default values of 0 and 1
and assume that those are the ones you
wanted the only value that is required
in this case is absolutely necessary is
this and parameter because it doesn't
have a default and makes sense right so
r need to know how many values you
need to generate but if we want to
change these values we can so let's try
it we can say, let's say just coma and
then we'll type in let's say mean of 10
and a standard deviation not one but
will so its standard deviation of eight right
now as we generate these variables.
You'll see that they're different and
now they're not around zero there around
ten and and as you know from the
previous section you kind of have a good
understanding of what the eight means
and standard deviation of age that means
how far away they force the most
variables 68.2 percent of the variables
once we generate them like it will fall
between 2 and 18.
Alright so that's how we passed module
parameters and other thing it was variable
is that when you pass them to a function
you can just specify them like this in
sequence that way you have
specify them in the right order for our
to understand them but you can also do
is you can actually tell our what names
these parameters have. So you can say
mean equals to 10 and as d equals to 8 and
then to start here you can say n
equals to 5 because those are the
parameters that are is waiting for and
mean and SD you can actually name this
is called passing parameters named
parameters to a function. So let's
execute that and as you can see this
run very well and what that allows
you to do is it allows you to past them
and not in sequence I could take this
mean I could get rid of it and I could
put it at the end I could put it off to
the standard deviation could say mean
equals 10 it will still work because now
our knows which is which
right so it logically understand where
to get one so it for demonstration
purposes we can see me a hundred and you
can see these variables are now around
concentrated around that 100 mean and
also what this allows you to do as well
as you can skip variable so you can say
I don't want to possibly I'll just do
the end and the standard deviation and
then the mean will be taken as a default
value of zero so let's run that now you
can see that it works again.
Alright that's enough with the
rnorm lets move on to the other ones. So
combined is pretty straightforward if
you even type of ? here there isn't
anything special this recursive
parameter but we're not going to go into
detail on that let's just keep combined
simple it just combines the variables
that you passed on to this function.
Let's talk about sequence remember I
told you that sequence is like a colon
and blood gives you that additional
level of flexibility and what we did
right what we did was we said sequence
one or something that all say 10 to 20
and oops I did it again 10 to 20 and
then you can specify the step left step
of three, so then you get the variable
between between 10 and 20 starting was
ten with the step of three.
So let's look at the help for sequence
which we brought up here and here will
actually see what we're passing so
where passing the first argument the second
argument and where passing the third
argument. They actually have names which
we haven't been using up until now. We
haven't even known about these names so
the names of these arguments are from
two and by so let's go ahead and type
mean in here so from equals 10 to 20 and
by equals 3 maybe let's make some space.
So if you run that again works perfectly
fine.
What other arguments it does a sequence
a allow so is there additional flexibility
that we're not using it yes of course
there is the additional flexibility is
that you can assist by length out. So
length out allows you to instead of
specifying the steps its allow you to say how
long you want your Vector to be alright
so let's get rid of by for now and
let's say I want length dot out right to
be equal to let's say I want a hundred
steps between 10 and 20 I want a hundred
per numbers to be taken I want this
sequence between 10 and 20 and the step
should be such that I will get a hundred
numbers in the end so let's run that as
you can see I have a hundred numbers
here so let me open up a little bit more
you can see here so it starts with 10
then r has automatically calculated
what step it has to take to get you a
hundred numbers before we get to
drinking and it actually got to 20 fine so
yeah that's how it works it finds those
steps that are required even though
these are not intercepts. So they're
double steps and as you can see here so
it's human again to the help you can see
here that by the default value of by is
actually 2 minus from divided by length out dot
minus one so if you specify length out
then by will be calculated using this
formula so we'll take the distance
between two and from and all divided by
the quantity you want minus 1 which
actually is the correct formula for the
steps. So that's how r find out what the
step is alright and what else do we have
here well there's another one along with
along with you can read about it here
basically what it does it's just like
left out but instead of specifying the
length you can specify a vector that you
want the vector that is generating to
have the same length off. So let me give
you an example
along with the right so let's say I have
a vector here of X is C, A, B and C
right so there's three values and vector
X so there we go I have a vector X of
three values and now if I run this along
with equals x around this I will get a
vector sequence from 10 to 20
we've also three values so basically you
saying instead of specifying the length
explicitly you specify the length
implicitly you're saying I want the
length of the output of this function to
be identical to the length of this
vector.
Alright so that's the additional
flexibility yet from sequence or the rep
replicate give us let's have a look here,
so replicate basically you can put in a
value x right so that's what we've been
doing so far how many times you want to
replicate anything length out similar to
the left out for sequence but what is
interesting here is each right so let's
have a look at replicate with each
replicate let's say we're replicating
the number 5 10 times right there we go
but now let's say we're replicating the
vector of 5 to 6 so 2  numbers here these two
and we're replicating them 10 times so
we have five six five six five six five
six ten times and 20 numbers in total
but what we can do with each is instead
of time, so what we have done just now is
we passed the second variable right so
one variable is this first one over here
so it's just the X value and then x is
the four next variable so what we've
done is we the 10 was assumed to be x so
if we rerun this will get the same but
what we can do now is instead of times
we can see each alright so we run that
which will get is 10
five and ten six right so each one of
your variables was replicated 10 times
and that is the additional flexibility
that you can get from Rep so you can
imagine if here i have a vector of let's
say let's say X we already have this
vector X what they want to replicate x
and we replicated five times ride each
flat that gives us a aaaa, bbbbb,  cccc if we said
not each but instead we sent times would
get ABC ABC ABC ABC.
Ok so that's how you can specify
arguments for your functions and that's
pretty much it that's all I wanted to
show you today
the last thing I 'll probably do is I'll
just show that strt actually works in
vectorize mode right so just to prove a
point or something we talked about
previously I'm sure you had some
practice already of some basic vector
operations of adding two vectors
multiplying and so on but let's have a
look and see how sprt can work in
vector mode so let's take this vector
here that we're creating 10, 15, 20 and
let's put it into a variable let's call
it a and if we run that now we have a
vector a so I'll just printed out here
10, 15, 20 and now instead of taking a
sprt of just one number we're going
to take the square root of the whole
vector and see what we get so if I run
this line I will get the square root of
10, 15, 20 so I have a vector now so I can
put this into b and if I print b as
you can see I have saved the square root
of all three numbers of the same time and
that is just a quick illustration of the
power of vectorize operations and that
you can actually pass vectors two
functions and jet a vectors as output a
very very powerful feature and actually
very powerful fundamental feature of r
and it does take some time to get used
to but after you have gotten used to it
you want to want to change back
it is very convenient
and very efficient okay that brings us
to the end of today's tutorial. I hope
you enjoyed it and I look forward to
seeing you on the next one until then,
happy coding.